# ORMJS: Object Role Modeling in JavaScript

> :warning: This project is in active development. Consider everything an alpha prototype. Release notes will be published here.

ORMJS is a completely clientside implementation of ORM, accessible from any modern browser. It is implemented in javascript d3v7.

With ORMJS you can:
- Generate ORM via an intuitive GUI interface.
- Save your ORM diagram as an SVG.
- Upload ORM SVG files generated by ORMJS and continue editing them.
- Generate Rel code from your ORMJS model.

See the latest version of ORMJS deployed [here](https://crhunt.github.io/ormjs/).

## What is Object Role Modeling (ORM)

From the [ORM website](http://www.orm.net/):

> Object Role Modeling (ORM) is a powerful method for designing and querying database models at the conceptual level, where the application is described in terms easily understood by non-technical users. In practice, ORM data models often capture more business rules, and are easier to validate and evolve than data models in other approaches.

## Rel plus ORM

[Rel](https://docs.relational.ai/getting-started/rel/overview/) is an expressive, declarative, and relational language designed for modeling domain knowledge. The language is designed to work with the RelationalAI Knowledge Graph Management System. 

ORMJS generates Rel code on-the-fly from the ORM model.

## How to interact with ORMJS

ORMJS is actively being developed and many user functions are still missing. If you would like to use ORMJS in its current state, you may:

| Event | On | Action |
|-------|----|--------|
|RightClick | Canvas | Create object menu |
|Dblclick | Canvas | Generate new entity |
|Shift + Dblclick | Canvas | Generate new rolebox |
|RightClick | Object | Object Menu |
|Dblclick | Object | Change object properties |
|Ctrl + Click | Object | Delete object |

## External packages

ORMJS uses [d3-context-menu](https://github.com/patorjk/d3-context-menu). This package is already integrated, nothing additional to download or install.