# Quick Start Guide

A quick start guide to building your own app with ORMJS. The examples here are for a simple, static, client-side app implementation. The examples here are for a simple, static, client-side app implementation.

## By Example

The folder `docs/app` contains an example web app that uses ORMJS. The landing page, `index.html`, is located in the top level of the project directory in order to host the example app on Github. See it [here](https://crhunt.github.io/ormjs/).

The page `docs/app/preloaded.html` shows an example of how to load an SVG generated by ORMJS into a webpage and make it interactive / editable with ORMJS.

### A Minimal App

Here you'll see a minimal app example that creates a single view on a static web page and populates it with an entity. The complete example is located at `docs/app/minimal.html`.

### What you'll need

The following components are necessary to include in your application.

Javascript:

- d3 library: `lib/eternal/d3.v7.js`
- d3 context menu: `lib/external/d3-context-menu.js`
- ORMJS: `lib/ormjs.min.js`

Stylesheets:

- d3 context menu: `style/external/d3-context-menu.css`
- ORMJS: `style/ormjs.style.min.css`

### Header

Your header will look something like,

```
<head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>

    <!-- ORMJS Style -->
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="style/external/d3-context-menu.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="style/ormjs.style.min.css" type="text/css" />
    
    <!-- ORMJS 3rd party libraries -->
    <script type="text/javascript" src="lib/external/d3.v7.js" charset="UTF-8"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="lib/external/d3-context-menu.js" charset="UTF-8"></script>

    <!-- ORMJS library -->
    <script type="text/javascript" src="lib/ormjs.min.js" charset="UTF-8"></script>

</head>
```

Be sure the `src` paths align with your project structure. Also be sure to include the ORMJS style after d3-context-menu in order to use style overrides in ORMJS.

> Note: The d3 library does not need to be included directly in your project. You can link to it like so: 
>
> `<script type="text/javascript" src="https://d3js.org/d3.v7.min.js"></script>
`

### Body

The body needs a few minimal components:

- A parent element for an ORM model view
- A script to initialize ORMJS
- A few lines to create a model and view

The parent element needs to have a height and width specified as the view svg will inherit its size.

```
<body>

<div id="canvas" style="background-color: #ccc; height: 90vh; width: 100%"></div>

<script>
window.onload = function() {

    // Create model
    var model = new ormjs.Model();

    // Create SVG
    var view = new ormjs.View({model: model.id, parent: "canvas"});

    // Draw an initial entity
    new ormjs.Entity({x: 0, y: 0, view: view.id});

}
</script>
</body>
```
