# React + ORMJS example

This example is designed to illustrate how to integrate ORMJS into a React app with NodeJS. 

What is demonstrated (from top to bottom):

1. **Unrelated event**: Changing the state of unrelated events does not impact ORMJS.
2. **ORMJS changes the inner html of this element**: ORMJS populates code in the inner html of an element generated by a React component. This component illustrates how ORMJS features can be exposed via React components.
3. **ORMJS uses onChange listener to read React component**: A zoom bar react component changes the display of ORMJS via an onChange listener owned by ORMJS.
4. **React component uses MutationObserver to read ORMJS changes**: A react component reads the contents produced by ORMJS and displays information about those contents.
5. **React component uses ORMJS library to create entity**: A react component can control the content of the ORMJS view.
6. **React component causes ORMJS objects to highlight on click**: This component illustrates how to use React to change ORMJS interaction. While here we trigger the change with a button, React's "useEffect" capability can apply the changes after render as well. 
7. **React component mounts / unmounts element containing ORMJS**: This component illustrates how a component can create and destroy elements populated with ORMJS views using useEffect. (A connected role is added after view creation with a timeout. Note that the code updates.)

## Get NodeJS

You will need [Node.js and npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) to run a local server. It is recommended to use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to install these.

## Start a server

In a terminal, navigate to the `react` folder and execute:

```
docs/react$ npm run dev
```

Your terminal will display which localhost port to view the generated page. Something like:

```
> dev
> next dev

ready - started server on 0.0.0.0:3000, url: http://localhost:3000
event - compiled client and server successfully in 383 ms (158 modules)
wait  - compiling / (client and server)...
```